Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
There are, I feel,
only two major frontiers left.
One is the exploration of space...
...which has been carried out in such
a miserable way by Colonel Glenn.
The other is the exploration of
the past. The whole background...
...of geography, climate and animal
life which accompanied man's change...
...from a pre-human to a Homo sapiens.
The earliest evidence of man is the
work of nameless human artists...
...on the walls of caves.
Before this, there is no
recorded history.
One part of our search
has led us to the study of apes.
It was the existence of the gorilla and
the chimpanzee in Central Africa...
...that led us to believe our ancestors
lived on this continent.
These two animals...
The rarest of all the apes...
...is the mountain gorilla.
It inhabits the lush, tropical
highlands of Central Africa...
...so remote that our researcher
suffered an attack of appendicitis...
...and would have died
had it not been for Roz Carr...
...an American friend
living in Rwanda.
They outrank monkeys...
...in intelligence. But the study
of them has virtually ceased.
George Schaller's pioneering study
in 1960 told us that this...
...the largest of all the primates,
is in danger of extinction.
His census showed that there were
fewer than 500 left.
God knows how many we've lost since
then to poachers who invade the forests.
Finally...
...I'm always being asked,
"Why do you do this?"
"Why have you spent your life
looking for something...
...buried in the past for
two million years?"
I suppose the only answer I can give
either you or myself...
...is simply this:
I want to know who I am...
...and what it was that
made me that way. Thank you.
- Dr. Leakey? I'm Dian Fossey.
- My name's Dowd. Howard Dowd.
I'd like you to meet my wife Lucille.
She's a real fan of yours.
We made a contribution to your
Wildlife Fund. We were pleased...
- Excuse me.
- You're doing a hell of a fine job.
Thank you. We need
all the contributions we can get.
- I'm Dian Fossey. I wrote to you?
- Oh, thank you, Miss...
- Fossey.
- We appreciate every contribution...
No, no. I wrote to you
about working for you in Africa.
Forgive me, but I get
many letters from people asking...
I wrote you six times,
about the gorillas.
- Sir!
- The physicalist!
- I'm the physical therapist.
- Hello.
- We're having a con...
- Very good.
I work with handicapped children,
and I spend a lot of time trying...
Excuse me. Do you mind?
- Go ahead.
- Thank you.
Trying to get close to people who
don't like having anyone around them.
I have no formal training,
but I love animals, and I've spent...
...two years in pre-veterinary training.
I know you're sincere, but there are
other considerations.
- Liking animals is not enough.
- You just said...
...you need someone to take
a census of the gorillas.
What about me? I can count!
One, two, three.
You really think you can do it?
Roughing it in Africa for six months?
Yes.
I'll tell you what.
Let me think about it.
How long are you gonna think about it?
Until all the gorillas are gone?
Dr. Leakey, you need me.
And I want this job.
Give me this chance.
Dian!
Hi!
- I made it.
- You sure did.
So exciting.
- You have your inoculation certificate?
- Yeah.
- In here somewhere.
- Good trip?
Very interesting.
I'll just give you the whole thing.
There are a lot of soldiers around.
Is something special going on?
Soldiers?
Oh, yes. I suppose it's because they've
been having some sort of civil war.
- A civil war?
- It's nothing to worry about, really.
We have to find porters and a tracker
and stock you up with provisions.
The weather's been dry.
This is the weekly market.
You'll find everything you need here.
First you must find the chaps
who'll be your porters.
Ah, there they are!
There they are!
- Bonbon.
- No bonbon.
No bonbon.
What is it?
Some of them believe a woman
living alone up there has to be mad.
Alone?
- Choose your man.
- What?
Your top man. Your tracker.
Swahili.
Jesus Christ.
Bad hand, good feet.
- You speak English?
- The priest.
St. Christopher.
Patron of saints and travelers,
and me too.
What's your name?
Sembagare. Semba-ga-re.
I am the finest tracker.
This man is not good as me.
Him is a great liar.
Me, I'm the best.
Okay. Okay, Sembagare, you're on.
Thank you.
Can you help me buy groceries?
Food. Food?
- Oh, food. Sure.
- Okay, good.
You coming?
Come on. Maybe you'll get lucky.
- You want this?
- Oh, candles.
We have that.
I've got five of those.
- All right.
- Merci!
Yours. You'll need it to get around
when you're off the mountain.
- Great.
- Now, look here.
We're here. The base at Mount Mikeno
is a four-hour drive.
Leave the jeep here.
It'll be quite safe.
Pick up some local porters.
Climb here, up to here...
...then finish here. Kabara meadow.
George Schaller's cabin's there.
- Really?
- Quite comfortable.
You mean...
...we go now?
- Yes. To make it by sundown.
Dr. Leakey, I just spent 35 hours
on four different airplanes.
- I should at least take a shower.
- No one will mind, dear.
I put something in there for you.
Thank you.
That's very nice of you.
You forgot the rest of my luggage.
No room. They'll be sent up
in a fortnight...
...with the rest of the gear.
- Now, wait a minute!
I quit my job, left my fiancé,
to say nothing of my appendix...
...and flew halfway around
the world. Those cases...
...contain my hair dryer, my makeup,
my underwear and my brassieres.
If they don't go, Dr. Leakey,
I don't go.
- Now for the car.
- Thank you.
As you can see, this is
a Land Rover with four-wheel drive.
It's very simple,
once you get the hang of it.
Red is low to high ratio.
Yellow is two- to four-wheel,
but just use the black.
That's the clutch. Clutch in, first gear.
Clutch out, second gear. Okay?
Good luck, Dian. I have to go.
- You're not coming with us?
- Of course not. My work's in Tanzania.
I'd like weekly reports. You're
expected to contribute material...
...to the National Geographic.
I mustn't miss my plane. Good luck.
If you've any problems,
get in touch with Roz Carr.
- Dr. Leakey!
- Have fun!
- Is it true there's a civil war going on?
- Not where we are going, mademoiselle.
- You must stop.
- I'm fine.
Okay.
Buffalo take four days
to cross the plain.
- They stop and start, stop and start.
- I said, I'm fine.
Mademoiselle, I have hot tea.
Oh, great.
Thank you. It's just what I needed.
Come on in.
Just trying to cram more of George
Schaller's gorilla book into my head.
Come in. Shut the door.
It's freezing.
Is that George Schaller?
George Schaller?
That's David. He's my fiancé.
My future husband.
That's good. Woman, man, children.
Do you have a family, Sembagare?
Once, and no more.
My tribe were killed,
while I was tracking.
I'm so sorry.
Me too.
- Good night.
- How big are these night nests?
- I don't know.
- You mean you've forgotten.
- How can I forget? I never knew.
Night nests, Sembagare.
George Schaller's book says
we count the gorillas' night nests...
...to get the census.
- I don't know about gorillas.
Of course you do. You're a tracker.
Yes, of buffalo, antelope and elephant.
What?
Hey! Hey!
That's great. That's just great.
What the hell have you been doing
for the last five hours?
I've been waiting for you to show me.
Shit.
Shit!
March 23, 1967. Dear Dr. Leakey:
We are doing our very best
to track the gorillas.
We're covering a lot of ground,
but making little progress.
Our only guide is George Schaller's
book. So far we haven't had any luck.
I'm not discouraged, but I'm starting to
think I'll spend six months without...
April 22. Dear Miss Fossey:
Surely you didn't expect them to
come out just so you could count them.
These animals are being
wiped off the face of the earth.
They hold the clue to the way
early man lived in his environment.
- It is essential that we discover...
- I know that! I'm not an imbecile.
I know you're not an imbecile. But it
helps to be reminded of the steps...
... that one always overlooks
in such situations.
Maybe I'm just no damn good at this.
Six weeks.
Six whole weeks and not
a single goddamn gorilla...
Shit.
Shit. I sat in shit.
My God! It's gorilla spoor.
- And it's fresh.
- It most certainly is.
Go on.
Just you wait, Louis Leakey.
Just you wait.
It's so beautiful.
No, mademoiselle. No.
Run! Run, mademoiselle!
Oh, God.
- Are you all right?
- Yes.
What does Schaller's book say
when a gorilla charges?
It says, never run.
God, he was big.
How much do you think he weighed?
Maybe two or three men.
I'm sorry. It was my fault.
I did not do my job.
So fast. I didn't think
he could move that fast.
Mademoiselle. No, mademoiselle. No!
Stop it! Stop it!
What the hell are you doing?
That's mine! Get your hands off!
That's my property.
Stop it!
- Goddamn it!
- Watch out, mademoiselle.
Tell them, Sembagare!
Tell them!
What's he saying?
Here in Kivu there is problem.
They don't want white people.
It's okay, I have work permit.
A work permit.
I have a work permit. I have permission.
I have a... Permission!
Tell him. Tell him, Sembagare.
No! No! No!
Sembagare!
- I'm not leaving!
- British people out!
- But I'm not British! I'm American!
- White people out! I'll shoot!
Are you in charge here? Who's in
charge here? Are you in charge...?
Screw you!
Get your filthy hands off me,
goddamn it! Get off me!
Find Roz Carr! American woman!
Across the border!
- Sembagare, run! Run!
- I'll meet you at Roz Carr!
I'll be there! Run!
Out! Out!
- Thanks for the lift.
- We don't want any foreign spies.
Don't touch me. My passport.
Okay.
Dr. Leakey:
We have been thrown out of
the Congo. All my research destroyed.
This place is a disaster.
Some little civil war.
For two days now I've been
trying to reach Roz Carr.
I'm afraid I'll never see
Sembagare again.
Mademoiselle, I told you.
I told you, Sembagare's a good tracker.
The best.
I won't ask how you got here.
I'm not sure how I got here. Thanks.
Good God!
What happened to you, child?
Oh, dear, you look exhausted.
Come inside.
What happened?
Come in.
Mrs. Carr. I'm just writing
to my dear patron, Dr. Leakey.
Letting him know that things
have hit a snag.
You're looking better.
Would you like some breakfast?
I'd like to wrap Louis Leakey's cane
around his neck.
Thank you.
My resignation.
- You're leaving?
- What else can I do?
Don't look at me like that. I can't give
you a job when I don't have one myself.
Can I?
Now he can't speak English.
It's not like I'm giving up. I was
kicked out. I didn't have a choice.
I'm gonna go home. I'm gonna buy
the sexiest dress I can find.
I'm gonna marry David. And he'll
never hear another peep out of me.
There's always war and poverty here,
but I love these people...
...and I cannot bear their suffering.
Sometimes it seems so hopeless
that I think I will leave.
I never really decided to stay.
But each time I came up for air
it was spring...
...and I was planting again.
The truth is, I love it here.
This is my home.
You've really made a life
for yourself here.
How far away are those mountains
from Kabara?
Not far, really. But Kabara
is on the Congolese side...
...and the border is closed.
But gorillas don't know borders.
They don't need passports.
Whatever are you talking about?
Dian?
Oh, God, that letter!
I've got to stop that awful letter!
Wait! Dian.
Dr. Leakey:
We are starting up again...
... this time from the Rwandan side,
where there is no civil war.
Sembagare has put together a new
team, and we begin at daybreak tomorrow.
This time I have bought a gun...
... and if any civil war comes my way,
it had better watch its ass.
I'll write as soon as we have
established base camp.
P.S., I am sending a few bills
for necessities that were lost...
Miss Fossey, if you expect the National
Geographic to pay for a hair dryer...
... you have another thing coming.
The first item on the agenda
is a new census.
This time,
I suggest you follow Schaller...
... and try counting night nests as
a guide to how many there might be.
Mount Karisimbi.
Mount Visoke.
Karisoke.
Research Center!
We have a new base in
excellent gorilla country.
Dense vegetation, steep slopes.
I've been with gorilla
groups almost daily.
However, the best count
we have been able to make...
... is half of what it was seven
years ago. Not good news.
The number of gorillas that you
report is very low, not surprisingly.
The poachers will have wiped out
the entire species...
... within the next five years.
It's urgent that we get as
much information...
I have been following one gorilla
group which I shall call Group Four.
I've gotten closer
to the females and the young...
... but the silverback remains aloof.
He keeps his distance...
... but watches everything carefully.
I'm moving to within 30 to 60 feet
of them and they're not afraid.
I'm hoping to get close
enough to make real contact.
Dian, George Schaller, who
spent his life studying animals...
... in the wild was wise to keep
his distance. Please be careful.
And can't you smoke
cheaper cigarettes?
Last week, a couple of them
actually approached me.
They were boisterous
and high-spirited.
The silverback watched.
He never takes his eyes off me.
Dian, I urge you for once
to be cautious.
George Schaller never made physical
contact with a gorilla group.
The male silverback can be
very dangerous.
Last week several young gorillas
played around me.
Words can't describe my emotions.
It's made everything we've
been through worthwhile.
I suppose my only regret is that...
... except for Sembagare,
I have no one to share this with.
To be frank, I think they're
quite confused as to my species.
I've gotten them used to me
by mimicking them.
They're fascinated
by my facial grimaces...
... and other actions that I wouldn't
do in front of anyone.
I feel like a fool, but this
technique seems to be working.
And because of the proximity, I've
observed a lot never recorded before.
Miss Fossey, that was undoubtedly
the most foolhardy...
... the most harebrained,
lunatic thing I've ever heard of.
However, since you seem to have been
successful, congratulations.
It is an amazing accomplishment.
And I'm quite proud of you.
The National Geographic
has approved new funding...
... and your work permit
has been extended.
I am pleased that
you're staying on with us.
I am sorry for your young man
in the States...
... but if you showed him what he saved
monthly on candy bars and cigarettes...
... not to mention lipstick and shampoo,
his disappointment would be tempered.
Hey! Don't you dare cook Lucy!
- What?
- No further.
- What is it?
- Sumu.
Black magic.
Black magic?
What is all this?
Batwa cemetery.
No! Put it back!
The stones around the grave, they
keep the soul in the ground at peace.
The circle joins two souls...
...and makes them one forever.
Batwa! We have disturbed
their burial place.
Oh, shit.
They want you to kneel down. Do it!
He wants to touch your hair. Let him.
What was that all about?
Your hair is color of fire.
They think you are a witch.
Oh, yeah?
Well, they wouldn't be the first.
I got it!
I got my work permit renewed.
Four hours of batting my eyelashes.
I need a treat, so I'll be back.
- What?
- Gorilla hand. Gorilla ashtray.
Where did you get this? Mama. Mama.
Please. Sembagare!
Sembagare!
I just want to ask you...
I just want to talk to you.
They say this park is protected, with
these Batwa spring traps everywhere.
Some protection.
No animal is safe around here.
Beautiful.
That's what it's all about.
Oh, no!
Its back is broken from the fall.
It will be dead soon.
- In 30 minutes it will be all over.
- That's too long.
The Batwa did this.
And their fathers, and grandfathers.
And their sons and their grandsons
after them. I don't think so.
If they want a witch,
I'll give them a witch.
Fourth and fifth digits webbed.
Hello, Digit.
This here is her house.
Thanks, okay. Good night.
Good night, sir.
What the hell's going on in there?
What is that?
Hello?
That's pretty good. Had me fooled.
Hi, I'm Bob Campbell.
Rotten, lousy weather you have.
Sorry, I'm a day and a half late.
I sent a message from Kigali.
No?
That's Africa for you.
What was the message?
I'm here to photograph your apes.
They're mountain gorillas.
You can't take photographs.
- Who did you say you were?
- Bob Campbell, National Geographic.
Look, I gotta get warm.
This might explain things for you.
It's cold enough in here to hang meat.
Here you go.
I'll save you the eyestrain.
National Geographic want pictures.
It's a matter of not biting
the hand that feeds you.
Do you have any experience with
animals, Mr. Campbell?
In 1950, I was bitten by a
snake in the outback.
There you go. I was 20.
In '58, a Bengal tiger,
Shivpuri, India.
Gee, they don't seem to like you
very much.
No, they don't. In '64, I went through
the ice at Cape Halkett, Alaska.
Had to tread 48-degree water for too
long. I've feared the cold ever since.
You can bunk with Rushemba.
First tent on the right.
Good night.
Bloody woman with her monkeys.
Christ! What is this stuff?
Good morning, Mr. Campbell.
Are you having trouble?
Nettles aren't nearly
as dramatic as Bengal tigers.
They bloody hurt.
If you think they hurt now,
just wait a few hours.
Thanks.
You can come with us, but no pictures.
And you stay at least 30 feet back.
So put those away.
Now.
Yes, ma'am.
Merde.
Gorillas get caught in these traps.
Sembagare and I went through
four days ago. We cut 11 traps.
So, imagine a carefree animal.
Goddamn Batwa!
- You can't blame only the Batwa.
- Oh, no?
They've been feeding their families
like this for generations.
If you're going to blame anyone,
you can blame the doctor in Miami.
He hires the bloke
that hires the Batwa.
The Batwa get to feed their kids.
The middleman gets a silk shirt...
...and the doctor gets a gorilla hand
ashtray for his coffee table.
- And a gorilla head for his wall.
- I can't get to the doctor in Miami.
You been to a doctor's office that
didn't have National Geographic?
Have you?
When you photograph...
...no sudden movements.
Stay low. No pointing or waving,
that frightens them.
Not too much eye contact, or
the silverback may charge.
If he does charge, stand your ground.
Never, ever run from a gorilla.
And don't scratch.
You don't have any calamine lotion,
do you?
Better than that. My own brew.
- Is it true you're a witch?
- That's what the Batwa say.
It just looks like guacamole.
Great.
The latest in modern medicine.
Well, good night.
Good night.
Thanks for the lesson
in gorilla etiquette.
What?
It means "brightness and light."
Sembagare, really.
Obviously they know I'm not a gorilla,
but the sound reassures them.
So, what do you want?
The gorillas. You with the gorillas.
I'll go over there.
- Great.
- They don't know you.
They've never seen a tripod,
so move very slowly.
Hello, Tiger. Hello.
Shit!
Break off one of those stems
and pretend to eat.
Act submissive.
I've never been so submissive
in my life.
Where is he?
Losing interest.
Could you go over to him?
Digit?
- Now?
- Is it all right?
I'm starting to be able to tell the
difference between them.
Yeah, they...
As you can see,
they're all different.
And they all have
very different characters.
No two have the same nose print,
right?
Right.
Effie and Marchessa, there.
Marchessa has a...
The bridge of her nose has a curve.
She has a...
...curve.
She has a line.
A beautiful line.
A beautiful shape.
A beautiful curve.
I was amazed when he came
so close to you.
Digit and I have a strange connection.
He has no peers in his group.
He's alone.
I understand that.
Why is that?
It's nice to see a married man
who can sew.
How did you know I was married?
The night you arrived, you shook the
rain off your parka outside the door...
...so you wouldn't get the floor wet.
Does it matter?
Apparently not.
How'd you go?
Get everything on your list?
- "Eight more Halloween masks."
- Only red ones. Or ones with red hair.
I won't even ask why, but I'll try
to get some for you in Nairobi.
Look what you've got.
Nice.
Look what I did. Sorry.
- What else will you do in Nairobi?
- What do you mean?
Nothing. Never mind.
It looks bad for flying.
- It'll pass.
- I don't think so.
Those puddle jumpers
can fly in anything.
I know these storms. You shouldn't be
flying. I'm right about this.
Yes, you are right.
I will be seeing my wife.
I know.
I love you.
What?
Oh, no!
Oh, my God.
No.
God. No!
No!
Goddamn you. You bastards!
David, I believe you're a good boy.
And I have lovely goodies here
for such a good boy.
Now, you can have it, if you tell me
where they took her.
Tie him.
Turn him around!
Bring him to me!
You tell me!
Tell me.
Tell me, damn it!
The man who buys the animals...
- Yes?
- He wanted a baby gorilla.
Yes?
- He stays at hotel.
- Where? Where?
At Ruhengeri.
Good boy.
Wait here.
Rushemba, get the tire iron.
Come on.
Shit.
Come here.
How could they do this?
Claude Van Vecten!
Which one of you is Claude Van Vecten?
Are you responsible
for kidnapping this animal?
- How dare you break into my property.
- Lf I see you or your van again...
...you'll be lucky if you don't end
up in a wooden box!
Bill of sale, madame.
From the minister of the interior.
- I'm going to have you arrested.
- You try it. Just try it.
You piece of shit.
Bastard!
Mukara, wait! Wait!
I'm Dian Fossey. I must talk to you.
You're the American woman
who lives with the gorillas.
I don't live with them. I study them.
And today there are six less.
I don't understand.
Give her to me.
- This baby was sold to a zoo broker.
- Yes, I know. I sold it.
- Just...
- Why?
Money. Lots of it.
Five gorillas were killed in the
bargain protecting this baby.
Here.
They were murdered by poachers.
The population now is half
what it was 10 years ago.
Your problem is decreasing gorillas,
mine is increasing people.
We're on opposite sides
of the same problem.
- Can I have this water?
- Sure.
That kind of money provides
people with food.
Clothing. Shoes. Medicine.
Necessities.
- Do you want to compare priorities?
- No, I don't.
The Virungas are supposed
to be protected.
- It's expensive.
- That's your problem.
Make new laws. Raise taxes.
But give my gorillas protection.
Your gorillas?
As I recall, you're a visitor
on a yearly renewable work permit.
I don't believe that status entitles
you to make government policy.
What about this poor baby?
This animal's going to die
in 24 hours.
You'll return all that money, because
Van Vecten doesn't buy dead property.
I could try to make her well enough
to make that journey, if...
If?
If you give me five men to train
as rangers. Anti-poaching rangers.
Four men. And you pay
half their salary.
Three men. And you pay
all their salary.
Agreed.
You gotta eat something, you know.
I know you're hungry.
Just try. Just try a little.
Just a little bit. No?
It's got lots of vitamins in it.
Taste it?
What about this? This is good.
Smell familiar?
Does it smell like home?
Pucker, don't do this to me.
Look at this.
Very tasty.
You don't want any, though, do you?
Do you want some?
Come on. Thattagirl. Thattagirl.
That's pretty good.
Now you can sleep.
Dian Fossey.
Pucker, look who's here.
Pucker, meet Bob.
- Pucker.
- Hey, it's my turn.
- Jealous.
- Yeah.
The tub's for me.
A daily scalding might just make
this climate bearable.
You were meant to be a surprise.
That's a girl.
- She's adorable.
- And this is for you.
- You're beautiful. Look at you.
- Do you like her?
She's so beautiful.
Break these traps up and burn them.
- They're new.
- I've hired anti-poaching patrols.
My woman's the only woman
in the world with her own private army.
I have so much to tell you.
Pucker was kidnapped...
I know. So does most of Rwanda,
Nairobi, London and New York.
You, my beautiful,
are becoming a legend.
Would you like to go to the movies?
- Can I have a bath first?
- You can have a bath second.
Why am I in this movie so much?
You're the story.
You're what people are interested in.
The gorilla girl.
It makes me look like
some real weirdo.
Crawling around the mud
in this climate...
...after a bunch of gorillas might
be perceived as weird.
- Do you think I'm weird?
- I do. Absolutely. Without question.
I also think you are wonderful.
Which comes first, weird or wonderful?
Weird.
The gorillas look great.
Look at that.
You see anyone you know?
I've asked my wife for a divorce.
Did you hear me?
- I'm scared.
- You're scared?
I'm about to marry a girl who's liable
to have gorillas for bridesmaids.
You should be scared.
Do you know what I want?
I want to get this film finished
and be well paid for it.
Go to a warm climate...
...and be around to make love to you
on your 64th birthday.
Are you looking after Pucker for me?
Good dog, yeah. You're a good dog.
What?
He's got the shape of the face.
But he missed on the nose.
That's not funny.
Where did they get your hair?
I haven't seen my hairbrush.
- I thought Semby...
- These Batwa are upset.
Well, I'm not running for
Miss Congeniality.
That's a good girl. Yes. Yeah.
Leave her.
We've got to go now.
Van Vecten's men are ready to leave.
Come on. Come on.
Yes. Look at this yummy drink.
Come on, let's go.
Up you go. Yes, that's a good girl.
What a good girl you are. Yes.
Yes, that's it.
Here's some nice cabbage.
- Okay, Pucker, in we go.
- I put some cabbage in there.
There. It's all right.
- And lots of water.
- Quickly, put that on.
- It's gonna be fine. Really.
- I'll do that.
Be brave. Be brave.
- Off you go. Go on.
- I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
- Pucker.
- It's all right.
God!
You know, if you could mix up
a shrinking potion, Witch Fossey...
...we could sit on this twig, float
down this stream into the Nile...
...go through the Sudan, past Cairo...
...pop out into the Mediterranean
near Alexandria...
...where I'd buy a bottle of retsina
and I would toast your beauty.
Dian, we can't stay
on this mountain forever.
Sure we can.
The pictures are selling very well.
Job offers are coming in.
But the gorillas are here.
I'm here.
We'll get a good researcher to look
after the center part of the year.
I don't want snotty little scientists
with slide rules in their pockets...
...peering at my gorillas.
- Hold on. I'm talking about six months.
- I don't.
Six months here.
Six months out of here. That's all.
You know, I just can't imagine not
being out with them every day.
Seeing their faces...
...hearing them. Smelling them.
Every time I think I know everything
about a gorilla...
...something completely new happens.
I'm hooked.
How can I give that up?
Yeah.
This is from the Geographic.
I've been offered a job in Borneo.
They want you to come too.
It's studying primates.
Your field.
Is the projector well-packed?
Good.
That's both the tripods there, is it?
Look, I've gotta go, all right?
It's a job.
I can't go the rest of my life
without working.
I'm sorry.
I'm not like you.
I can't spend the rest of my life
up here. I wish I could.
I'm sorry.
I'll write to you soon.
But in the meantime, will you get a
two-way radio so I can talk to you?
If you go...
...don't write.
Please don't come back.
Let's go.
You're our very first research
students, actually.
Let me take one of those.
It's a long road. Here.
What's in here? Rocks?
Mukara?
What did Van Vecten want?
It seems the Cologne Zoo
wants another gorilla.
But don't worry,
I told him that's all over.
One gorilla wasn't enough?
Pucker died a year after delivery.
Good for Pucker.
Well, when Leakey died,
I almost chucked it all and went home.
But I thought of my gorillas.
I haven't lost one to poachers in over
10 months. That's a record.
- What does Toto ya Nyoka mean?
- Who called you that?
Awaka.
It means, affectionately,
"the worm boy."
Great.
Look around you.
This is as close to God as you get.
Let's go.
Get down.
I don't know this one.
No! Don't move!
It's just a bluff.
Kim? Good morning. Lovely weather.
Better put your hood on.
You'll go with Sembagare and me today.
Good morning, Brendan.
Larry, you're late again!
It is not my job to get you up
in the morning. Be on time.
Brendan and Larry, go with the rangers.
Dominique, show them how to cut traps.
You all need to improve with a panga.
- Use it.
- May I have a word?
What is it?
I know it's important to cut traps.
But I am so close to getting my
data for the birth-frequency graph.
You know the rule. No research unless
you put in the time to protect them.
Now, no more of that "me"-itis.
Let's go.
- Simba's much bigger.
- Yeah.
She's due in about two weeks now.
Check out the proud father over there.
Digit.
It's the infant, Kweli.
That's right.
You've been doing your homework.
In your book, you mentioned a great
lobelia zone near here. Could I see it?
- Giant lobelia.
Could I see it? Today, with you?
Sure.
Digit's group.
Go on!
Digit.
No, mademoiselle.
- What about the rest of the group?
- They got away.
Tell him he no longer has
his courage or his manhood.
Ruhengeri. Police.
How could you do that?
I don't care what he did.
This isn't your private kingdom.
That was sick.
You think I'm sick?
Am I a murderer?
Did I do this? This won't stop
until those butchers are stopped!
What are you crying about? If I hadn't
been wasting my time with you...
- I found these.
- Leave them.
Mademoiselle. Mademoiselle!
That's too much!
- You get out of this!
- No, no!
Stop it!
- I mean it! You stay out of this!
- No, madame!
- Stop it! Stay out of this! I mean it!
- No!
Kim? I'd like to talk to you, please.
May I come in?
God.
This is not a summer camp.
If you wanna crawl in and out of each
other's beds, do it somewhere else.
You're fired!
You can't fire us!
We don't work for you!
Get off my mountain!
What are you staring at?
What are you gawking at,
you lazy wogs?
If you'd done your job,
this wouldn't have happened!
- Don't speak to them that way.
- I pay them! I can talk how I want!
- You don't pay much.
- I pay plenty!
Sembagare, whose side are you on?
I'm on your side.
I'm always on your side, mademoiselle.
But you have made me ashamed of you.
They took his head.
And his hands.
I heard Digit's group last night.
Near the west ravine.
Get on with it, Sembagare.
Hi, Maggie. I'm back.
Hello. How are you?
Yes.
I don't see Simba.
Simba's not here.
Oh, no.
- No?
- No. Nothing.
Simba.
Hi.
Hello. Hello.
Fourth and fifth digits webbed.
I know you.
Nice ring, Van Vecten.
Zoo sale profits?
Miss Fossey, where did you see
your first wild animal?
In a zoo, wasn't it?
You like this ring? You wanna
keep the hand it's on?
If I see or hear or smell you
anywhere near my gorillas...
...you'll be writing with your other
hand, and I'll have an ashtray.
- You understand me?
- You are mad. Crazy woman.
- I am crazy.
- You go too far.
- Good!
- Don't push me!
I'll push you off the face
of the earth! You murderer!
Mukara was here this afternoon.
He is very angry with you.
He says you are telling people
there's typhoid on the mountain.
The government needs money
from the tourists.
They get very mad if you
scare these people away.
Mukara also said last week
you shot a tourist in the meadow.
Now, that is not true.
I shot way over their heads.
They are not going to turn
this mountain...
...into a goddamn zoo.
They're not.
Mademoiselle, Mukara told me to
tell you if you continue to do this...
...they won't give you a new work permit.
- Did he, now?
A three-year work permit.
Issued 10 days ago.
They can't touch me now.
That's a beauty.
You're beautiful.
"For as much as it hath pleased
almighty God of his great mercy...
...to take unto himself the soul of
our dear sister, here departed.
Almighty God, who did send
so far thine only son...
...to seek and to save that which
was lost, look down in mercy..."
I wish you'd leave Karisoke
for good before it kills you.
You know, I always thought I'd go
back to the States sooner or later.
I really expected to get
married, have children.
Instead you've got a mountain
full of gorillas...
... who wouldn't be alive
if it weren't for you.
Subtitles by
SDI Media Group
[ENGLISH]
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from OpenSubtitles.org